English
Español
SNAP Food Benefits
What it Offers
The Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) helps people buy the food they need for good health. People also can buy garden seeds with SNAP benefits.
SNAP food benefits are put on a Lone Star Card and can be used just like a debit card at any store that accepts SNAP.
SNAP can’t be used to:
Buy tobacco.
Buy alcoholic drinks.
Buy things you can't eat or drink.
Pay for food bills you owe.
Effective April 1, 2026, SNAP recipients will not be allowed to use SNAP benefits to purchase:
Candy: Examples of items that cannot be purchased include candy bars, gum, drops and taffy. Nuts, raisins and fruits that have been candied, crystalized, glazed or coated with chocolate, yogurt, or caramel and nuts roasted with a sweetener are also not allowed.
Sweetened drinks: Examples of drinks that cannot be purchased include nonalcoholic beverages made with water that contain 5 grams or more of added sugar or any amount of artificial sweetener. (Items that can be purchased include beverages that contain milk or milk products; soy, rice, or similar milk substitutes; or have more than 50% vegetable or fruit juice by volume.)
You can also use your SNAP benefits to buy food online. Learn more about buying food online with SNAP.
Who is it for?
People in eligible low-income households.
Most adults ages 18 to 54 with no children in their home can get SNAP for only three months in a three-year period. The benefit period might be longer if the person works at least 20 hours a week or is in a job or training program. Some adults might not have to work to get benefits, such as those who have a disability or are pregnant.
Households in which all members are either older adults (age 60 and older) or people with disabilities are eligible to participate in the Texas Simplified Application Project (TSAP) , which makes the SNAP application process easier and provides three years of benefits at a time instead of six months.
Maximum Monthly Income Limits
Other Rules
Most people ages 16 to 59 must follow work rules to get SNAP benefits. Work rules mean a person must look for a job or be in an approved work program. If the person has a job, they can’t quit without a good reason.
Maximum Monthly SNAP Amount
Learn More
Lone Star Card
Apply for benefits at Your Texas Benefits
Texas Simplified Application Project (TSAP)
If you have difficulty communicating in English or have a disability, free language assistance or other aids and services are available upon request. Please call 211 or 877-541-7905.